In this lesson we're going to be looking at javascript cookies now cookies actually require the server
to be able to able to read and store cookies.
So we need an actual You are L and we can't use the local one that we've been using previously.
So I've set up a local office so this is basically a server machine that's running on my local computer
and it basically simulates what your web server would be doing.
So it gives me the ability to store cookies and for this exercise we are going to actually need to have
the server up and running because we do need to have that domain.
We can't just simply linked to the file as we've been doing earlier.
So if you do want to set up a local machine there is one available the same one that I'm using is available
at Apache friends dot org.
It's available on Windows Linux OSX.
And basically when you download it and you start it up you get this type of control panel.
And the one that you need to run is Apache and then start the Apache server and then also you also need
to link to where your files are located.
Or you can locate the files within the default directory of the download which should be zap.
And they do have a folder there for typing in and storing your server files.
So basically what it's doing is it's simulating the server and predominately used for back in code for
databases and a whole lot of great stuff when you're a web developer.
So really handy tool to have and for javascript you don't actually need it but for this lesson because
we are looking at cookies we do need to have an actual you r l.
So let's let's create our first cookie and creating a cookie in javascript is relatively easy.
So all we have to do is open up a document so you type into the document object.
And this is the dorm what we looked at before.
So there's nothing new here.
And cookies are really useful for a lot of things when it comes to web web sites.
You can store user log in information and any type of information that you want to make use of where
you want the user to have use of next time they access your web page.
So the cookie that I want to set up is I want it to set up a user or a log in and we're just going to
say log in.
True.
So this is if our user has logged in and they're coming back to the Web site and they're just simply
go into the log in and log in has already been set to true.
So we don't have to have them ask them for their credentials again.
It's stored within the cookie.
And until they clear out their cookies even if they close down their browser they're still going to
have access to this.
So next thing that we need to do is output that cookie object so we can see it within the document.
So let's open up the document and we need to do document directories so let's do a console directory
and documents so it can take a closer look at the document object.
So let's open that up and we can see within the document object there are cookies.
So it's sitting there.
So basically if it's within the document object that also means that we have access to the cookie and
we can't recall that information.
So basically it's that same information that I've sent here and it's being stored.
So even if I was to delete this and go back refresh the page and so rember this time we're actually
not setting the cookie so I gotta do a document directory and we'll put the document object again.
And you see that the cookie is still there.
So notice that this is a fresh page.
I've removed it.
I'm not setting it anymore but it's still persistent within the cookies of my web browser and it's linking
to this particular domain name.
And the idea is if anyone ever travels back once you set a cookie and travels back to their domain name
then they can always have access to it.
You can also set expiry dates for your cookies and usually some of the best ways to create cookies are
to create a function in order to create those cookies because that's going to save you a lot of time
and calculation.
So let's let's set up a function in order to create the cookies.
And we'll also set up a function in order to read cookies.
So this one is going to read the cookie.
The other one is going to write the cookie or create a cookie or a cookie a cookie.
So first and that we need to do is we need to create that cookie
and we have taken some parameters for the cookie.
So first of all let's create a name for the item than the cookie.
We also need to have a value for the cookie and the amount of DS So we're going to set an expiry date
for this cookie.
So expiry is going to be easy.
And for now let's just leave that blank.
So let's create our cookie in order to create the cookies so let's document.
So just as we did earlier document cookie and then we equal it to name and let's say equal so the same
format that we did earlier where we did the log in equals true.
So this time we're doing the name the value.
So this is all going to be done within the function.
And also I wanted to add in the expiry.
So I want to add in the for the expiry.
And there's one other thing that I want to add in as well.
So you can be specific with the path.
So I'm going to set the path to equal just the forward slash there so that will bring us back to the
root path where we have some options as well where we want to store the paths of the cookie so if you
want to store it depending on a particular page we can specify that page.
But I'm just going to forward slash that.
So it's going to store it for that entire domain.
So not for the page but as Stuart for the entire domain.
And that's how you can split that up and you can have various cookies for different pages that are available
within your web page.
So let's also.
Now let's set the days condition.
So we're going to do check to see how many days and depending on the number of days this is where we
need to set up our date.
So let's create a date objects or a new date.
So this is the date method that we saw earlier in the previous lesson and we're going to simply set
a time so we get a Unix time stamp.
So set time.
So again using what we learned earlier where we can set a time.
So first of all before we set a time we need to get the current time.
So we're going to get the date and then we're going to add to that current time.
So get time.
And this will give us our current time within that Unix time stamp.
And now we can add in a number of days to it and we know that we've got the days value but it's going
to be returned back.
So the get time is going to give us in milliseconds.
So we need to multiply this out.
So over 24 hours over 60 Minutes over 60 milliseconds and over 1000 milliseconds.
So this will give us a value that we can set within those milliseconds for that expiry.
And then the next step is just to add to the expiry.
So we need to set up that value.
So splitting the cookie information we do the semi-colon and we set expires
and we equal whatever our expiry time is for the cookie.
So we can add in the date and now it's transform it to UTC.
So this will give us a really long format of that date that we've created up here
so let me make some adjustments to this.
So get rid of the date value because I had given it a value of D and next we've set up the expiry So
we're all ready to say set and create cookies.
So let's go out refresh our prey page and try our cookie maker.
So first of all let's set a name so we'll set a name for this and we give it an ideal value.
And the value will be five and the number of days that we're setting this cookie is going to be 10 days.
So let's try this out.
And now let's list the document object
so let's list the document
and.
Take a look at the cookie that we've set.
So now we see that we've got another cookie sitting in there.
So we still have the log in as equals true.
But now we have a brand new one with ID equals five.
So this is the one that we just set up over here and the next lesson I'll show you how to retrieve this
information.
So if you do have access to the local host or if you want to go ahead and try out zap.
This will give you the ability to do localhost.
So it does take download and you can just you work off of the default configuration.
And as long as you're putting your work files within that default root folder of zap you should be OK
to run the local machine.
And the way you know that you've got it up and running is you can go to localhost.
And that's going to run all of those default root files.
And if you do get the set up or if you want to just upload it to your web server if you have access
to a web server then you can upload it there as well to try out cookies and the lesson.
So you have to read this cookie information.
So that's coming up.